Louis peppered of lilliput loaf company
in Mullingar County Westmeath told us
about the traditional Irish potato cake
box-t and he shows us here how to make
it using fresh local ingredients
Cavan and eaten they tend to mix mashed
potatoes in and they make boxty loaf and
they make boxy dumplings and yeah but
I'm going to do that additional West of
Ireland boxes which is common in
Connemara and mayo and paste that out so
you get about three or four nice nice
potatoes I need the skin on because
there's a nice color on the skin and the
skin of the potato is nearly better for
you than the actual center of the potato
so from there we wrap it up and then you
squeeze it sometimes it goes all over
the place so you just squeeze out the
starch it's thrown in so today I'm going
to do a Irish flag box stick and which
is really it's going to add in a little
bit a sweet potato well I I tend I think
I've tried different potatoes and I tend
to use the the Roosters I just like it's
a habit I suppose you want a fairly hard
potato not too much moisture in it and a
fairly new fresh potato and so this is a
bit of saccade Irish flag box tea what
I'm doing is putting a little bit of the
orange of their sweet potato in now I
actually invented this here about six
weeks ago I do the market here every
Saturday morning so salt is another
ingredient now I I tend to use carry on
door see there somewhere that's tend to
mix the salt with you know grinders with
herbs gives a little beautiful flavor
the other thing which is very nice in
this particular box is a bit of fennel
I love fennel a really nice herb and
people are sort of put off it because of
them they put off because of the aniseed
flavor which it goes very well in any
dish as a flavoring it's also nice and
green and these are Westmead scallions
not need scallions now the West needs
guidance and they've also got a nice
green on them as well and that the
organic locally produced organic
scallions are absolutely delicious
there's nothing like what you buy in the
supermarket you can see they're nice and
the real scallions nice and small love
plenty of green on them and this is this
is a one of Sheridan's cheese's now
we're just going to go really well with
this particular box tea and its say it's
a rye field cheese which is a goat's
cheese and it's nice and crumbly I'm
gonna stick my fingers into it and just
add a little bit at often where's that
from
that's seemingly was produced from two
fields down from here originally so it's
nice to use I love using local
ingredients that's what the markets are
all about then we add in a little bit of
flour about to two to four tablespoons
of flour that's nice to get my hands
nice and flour yeah that's just binds it
and I put in a little bit of buttermilk
as well it just you're making a nice
paste with it and it keeps it all
together in the pan so I just put a
small little buttermilk in now maybe if
we were doing this with the mashed
potatoes we wouldn't need a bottle milk
but it just helps to bind us so that's
really yes no that's the mix made well
the only way I've ever been able to cook
us and they tried cooking as an oil
after my cooking and asura thinks is
with her
hush cast-iron pan and I'm sitting the
pan but not burning and then me oh yeah
they put the Knicks into their water
then it is like the Irish flag isn't it
now it's green white and orange anyway
so I know everything in that and I was
from the Midlands
after about seven minutes each side on
the pan the box-t is ready to be served
ah stop I think
many people lived a second one here
you